in general so did you come to the
Security Council with a with a plan or
with new ideas because obviously you
went to Libya with some ideas and you
shared it with the parties there and
obviously it was not enough for the
parties to to reach an agreement or to
stop the pipe of humanitarian colleagues
on the ground report that the escalation
of violence in and around Tripoli has
caused the displacement of some 3400
people fleeing from fighting and is
blocked emergency services from reaching
casualties and civilians clashes with
heavy weapons or affecting residential
areas and an unknown number of civilians
are unable to flee and the United
Nations remain available to facilitate
any political solution so do you have
new ideas you shared with the council
and how did you find the reaction in the
Security Council today we're calling for
a temporary humanitarian truce to allow
for the provision of emergency services
and the voluntary passage of civilians
including those wounded from the areas
of conflict
[Music]
so do you have new ideas you shared with
the council and how did you find the
reaction in the Security Council today
it is for the city council to speak in
relation to other Security Council
decides when my girlfriend and I first
started reading Aristotle Plato through
Citadis major thinkers in the history of
political thought primarily in of Athens
I think a few of them out of Rome in
Sparta weirdoes Xenophon fallen way we
started reading some of these major
major thinkers in the history of Western
political philosophy one of the things I
said to her is when you look at
contemporary politics when you look at
the people to make the decisions you
will be amazed to find that they also
read these texts they also are familiar
with these sources they're familiar with
the arguments and ambiguities that are
to be found in Plato Aristotle through
cities so on and so forth even somebody
who might seem like a kind of lowbrow
despicable career politician someone
like Bill Clinton to a remarkable extent
recent generations of politicians have
had this kind of education whether they
got it formally in elite Ivy League
universities or whether they sought it
out for themselves one of the things I
find disturbing in surveying both the
journalistic and professional political
opinion about the current events in
Libya is that it shows to me the extent
to which the people who are now in power
and the people who now broadcast the
decisions made by those in power they
really have not read Aristotle Plato
Thucydides they really do not have that
kind of classical learning I see it
reported throughout the mainstream press
that the strongman in eastern Libya is
supported by Saudi Arabia as if this is
some sort of proof positive that he is
not
supported by the United States of
America as if Saudi Arabia the United
States of America have not been on the
same side of every conflict consistently
since george w bush and there was a time
i'm old enough to remember when Obama
first came to office and people wondered
is Obama gonna guilt the ongoing
military alliance really worldwide
military alliance between the United
States people held their breath and no
Obama really continued exactly the same
policy as george w bush and the world
elder breath people were really
uncertain what was gonna happen when
Donald Trump was first elected and we
had this series of absurd really
observed statements from Donald Trump or
he he said among other things that the
world looks much different when you're
behind the desk at the White House and
he announced that no he's just gonna
carry on having America be Saudi
Arabia's number-one mercenary army so
yes we know that haft are in the the
east is supported by Saudi Arabia the
fact that the eastern Libyan forces are
supported by Saudi Arabia does not
exclude the possibility that they have
been supported by the u.s. in the past
nor that they will be in the future on
the other hand I see some left-wing and
peacenik sources people are pro-peace
and I'm not ridiculing them for that but
let's see what I say this people who are
just general advocates for peace
ridiculing and lambasting this eastern
Libyan force saying that their leader
has been on the payroll of the CIA or
that he is now continuing to be on the
payroll of the CIA the truth is we don't
know that we don't know the big news
what we know right now is that he's
backed by France that's a much harder
piece of news for the mainstream media
to spin as opposed it's not useful
propaganda one way or the other
the photographs from this conflict are
no longer coming from journalists
they're coming from combatants
themselves because there are no
journalists on the ground as you may
have noticed I just played some cliffs
in this senior senior officials the
United Nations flew in and flew out and
made very florid and bold and vague
declarations those YouTube videos I just
gave you clips from they have fewer
views than the the YouTube videos on my
channel it's shocking to me so this is
major major news announcements from
Libya on the United Nations own YouTube
channel and I can say wow I get more
views than the United Nations on YouTube
because look I can't say nobody cares I
can't say that but seriously one of them
at 56 views and I'm two of them because
I clicked on it twice these are small
small numbers people I can't say that
nobody cares I once had a debate with a
professor University professor in class
where he was talking about the public's
lack of interests in Canadian politics
in contrast to way or interest is
focused in American politics because
there's a lot of interest at the top
shall we say American politics and a lot
less interest for a local boy and I said
so I said look your own premise here you
know it refutes itself your point isn't
this isn't a difference tree in American
politics in Canadian politics point is
universally people pay attention where
the decisive difference is made people
are gonna look at the stage of political
activity which actually gonna make a
difference and nobody believes that the
United Nations can make a difference
anymore and nobody believes that they
will make a difference anymore but it's
still time to stop it's still time for a
ceasefire to take place for a cessation
of hostilities to take place and to
avoid the worst which would be a
dramatic bloody battle for Tripoli we're
calling for a temporary humanitarian
truce to allow for the provision of
emergency services and the voluntary
passage of civilian so yes
you know
nations can have senior personnel being
paid very very high salaries wearing
very very well-tailored suits fly-in
fly-out and staid a bunch of platitudes
about you know human rights and reducing
the body count and calling for a
ceasefire and calling for a political
solution nobody notice that and again
the really strange lack of maturity both
coming from the people making those
statements and the people reporting them
the people repackaging them into
propaganda various kinds cuz it's all
propaganda right now if you present half
tar as a CIA puppet that's propaganda we
don't know that we have no indication
that his plan of the series of decisions
he's made or his army has been in
lockstep with u.s. foreign policy we
don't know if he's really been
independent but he's someone who has 20
years experience living in Virginia who
probably has a sense of what's normal in
a Western democracy from living for 20
years in Virginia and that the CIA might
now want to co-opt that might want to
build on that good feeling we do not
know about his relationship with Russia
we don't we know we know what is really
heated with France we know bosz
relationship with Saudi Arabia to its
extent it seems unlikely that the French
are in bed with someone who is a dire
enemy of American democracy but I doubt
I doubt that the people at the top of
the United Nations have a whole lot
better information to work with and what
I see is is a real lack of the sort of
sober tragic realism that reading
lucidity
and Aristotle helps you to cultivate the
future of Libya now is going to be
decided by the one who wins by force of
arms period and we hope we hope that
during his 20 years in Virginia he
developed a taste for elections we know
he received an education
from the CIA we hope that the CIA did
not teach him to be a brutal dictator
but they taught him to fail you you know
creating elections of some kind I will
read a passage from through Citadis
today in which he said the concept of
rights in the United Nations context
human rights political rights rights
rights only exist in relationships
between equals as for the rest the
strong do what they will and the weak
suffer what they must at the end of
World War two with the whole world
taking a step back and looking with
shock and awe at the destructive power
of the atom bomb we told ourselves a
story and in two words it went never
again
and the reality is it's only in a very
limited set of contexts in which two
sides are pointing nuclear warheads at
each other that that feeble we all told
ourselves the end of World War two holds
any weight at all so right now the map
of Libya is being redrawn and the
political destiny of Libya is being
defined by the same old fashioned
politics that go back more than 2,500
years to Aristotle and Thucydides and
it's saddening and shocking to me to see
that the handful of people who in
totally undemocratic unaccountable
non-transparent organizations whether
those are in the press journalists or
within the United Nations the people who
really earn a good living to do
political analysis and provide some
meaningful guidance on this is it that
they don't care or is it that they
simply don't
[Music]